Oh, we can feel the end almost.
We're in rule number four.
The final rule in our rule book.
Drop non dominance or drop non dominant terms.
What do we mean?
Let's have a look.
Let's say we have a function again with a really long name that says Print all numbers, then all pair
sums.
Maybe not the best name for our function.
We can probably work on the readability here, but let's see what this function does.
Well, this function takes numbers and these numbers variable, we're going to loop over them with a
for each loop.
So again, just looping over and logging out the numbers.
And then we have another step, which should remind you that's probably an addition that we're doing.
We're adding another step.
And in here we're summing the pair sums.
That is, we're adding.
Each number one after another.
Let's show you with a little bit of a demo here.
If let's say we create actually, we'll just print numbers and in here for the numbers, let's just
give it an array of one, two, three, four, five.
If I click run here.
We see that these are the numbers.
One, two, three, four, five, because this is the step.
We're just logging it out.
Nothing too difficult.
And these are their sums.
All we're doing is adding one with one, then one with two, which equals three, one with three which
equals four, one with four, which equals five and one and five which equals six.
And then we move on to the next loop, which is.
Two and one which equals three, two and two which equals four.
And it keeps going on and on and on.
So we see the loops that we've done here and problems like this is something we're going to do later
on in the course.
Right now, we're just worried about bingo.
What do you think the big notation here is?
Well, once again, if we do o of the first part is the for loop so we can say that there's of an.
And then the second part, which again is another step.
So we're going to say add plus.
This one has two four loops nested.
So that means oh to the power of two.
All right.
So that's our big O notation.
But rule number four states that we want to drop the non dominant terms.
That means we care about the most important term.
In this case, we actually drop the N.
And just have and to the power of two because as the input increases, the size of MN to the power of
two is way more important than the MN.
So we always just keep the dominant term.
Let me give you another example.
What if we had a function that had a big O of, let's say, X?
To the power of two and then we'll say that it has three x.
Plus 1000.
And maybe we'll say plus X divided by two.
All right.
That's really, really confusing.
That's math.
We're not going to want to deal with that too much.
How do we simplify this based on the drop non dominant terms?
The fourth rule states that, again, we worry about the most important dominant term because X to the
power of two is the most significant.
That is, if X is five five to the power of two is 25, five times three is 15.
This is 105 divided by two is 2.5.
In this case, the dominant term is 100.
But remember, with Big O, we're worried about scale.
And as things grow larger and larger and larger.
So when this becomes 5000, well, 5000 to the power of two or 500 to the power of two, that's 250,000,
if I did the math right.
Three times 500 is only 100.
1500.
100 is now insignificant and 500 divided by two is 250.
You see how this has grown significantly more.
Again, because we're only worried about scale here.
We drop everything else and we can just ignore it completely.
And this becomes X to the power of two.
How nice is that?
Just makes things so much simpler.
So there you have it.
We have now a way to simplify everything.
If we go back to our past examples.
Remember this one?
Remember this one.
It now makes sense why we've just said big O of n because we don't care about the insignificant items,
only the most important ones.
And same with this one.
By the way, a fun little note here.
If we had another loop inside of these two loops, well, this would become.
Oh.
To the power of X cubed or and cubed doesn't really matter what we have, but it's going to be to the
power of three because we have three nested layers.
And you can keep going.
You can have to the power of four to the power of five.
But here's the thing.
If you have three nested loops, 99.99% of the time, that's usually a bad idea.
It scales really, really badly, and most likely you're doing something wrong.
And there you have it.
We've gone over the four rules.
And with this in mind, we're going to take a look at the cheat sheet that I've prepared for you.
So from now on, instead of having to calculate everything and really look at every single detail of
a function, you can right away, figure out what the big O is or what the time complexity of a function
is.